Noesis script explanation by Kid Chameleon (aka KC)
Original repo: https://github.com/KidWizardOfTheWeb/OllieKingRETools
-General notes-
These scripts are for explicit usage within noesis, the 3D model viewer application. Simply drag and drop the script into the python folder inside of the plugins folder. These folders are in your directory for noesis.
The stable folder are the scripts that are in a working state and only no/minor issues at most. They should be usable for everyone with minimal user input.
The experimental folder are scripts that aren't in a fully working state currently, and have a lot of spaghetti code/comments/temporary workings until the issues are resolved. The audience script at the time of writing (06/25/2022) works for exporting without animations only and has the proper armature setup. Attempting to apply audience animation files will not give correct output. The stage script parses some model data in its current state, but needs support for textures and more models with discrepancies. If you wish to fix these issues, send a PR.

Stable scripts:
-mdbPlayer script-
This script obtains the model, armature, textures, and optionally animations for the player models. On load, a prompt will ask you to load individual animations with 0, or all at once with 1. Type a number to choose and press enter, or cancel to load none. The model, armature, and textures will be automatically loaded once you select a model from the player folder (textures will try to find the texture file if it has the same name as the player file, i.e. grinner.mdb will try to find grinner.txb). If you selected 0, another window will open to ask for another file, which is for selecting individual animation files (.mtb). These are entirely optional and the window can be closed by hitting the cancel button or the esc key to only load the model, armatures, and its textures. Other models, such as stage parts and audience member models do not load properly with this script and will have separate scripts to account for them. You can export this file without any other commands needed, .fbx model type should get you by for general usage. The textures are outputted as .bmp images with the model as well.

Advanced notes: In order to properly use option 1 for animations, you MUST either have used the original file system with the motion folder inside of the player folder or have a folder called "Motion" inside of your player folder with all the animations in there. When you load a model with this part of the script active, it will take a second or two and noesis may say it isn't responding. Don't panic, it's just parsing a lot of files at once. Eventually, it will extract with all of those animations. A select few are broken at the moment (notably most of the VS animations and grind #20) but the majority are fine. These will be fixed in the future. Exporting is a little different here, as if you export without any extra commands, it will export all animations as a SINGLE SEQUENCE. If you prefer the animation data as separate files however, you can type "-animoutex .noefbxmulti" into the commands line in the export window to do so. This also works with the earlier export mentioned in the first paragraph above if you want specific animations exported as single files.

-Textures script-
This script reads only the textures (.txb) from the game. Helpful if you just want to view the textures separated, or need a specific texture that don't have a model file (i.e. "s1_section.txb" doesn't have a corresponding model file so it won't automatically be searched for, or exporting the alternate color variants for characters since the model script only searches for the main color). Export works with any image format noesis supports. The original format is DDS. I'd suggest exporting to PNG for transparency with the alphas or export as BMP to fill transparent areas with black. 

Experimental scripts that currently function at a passable working capacity:

-Audience model script-
Similar to the player model script, you can follow all of those instructions. However, NO ANIMATION FILES WORK, as they don't apply properly to the armature at the moment. Skip that step and they should export fine. Will be updated in the future...

-Stage model script-
WARNING: currently a power user/developer script. Hex editing knowledge recommended.
On selecting a stage to load, the script will ask for offsets to load. You can eyeball it by looking for 1201/1202/4201/4202 stage type flags. Faces are right under all the mesh data. Then it'll ask for primitive type, 0 for tris and 1 for tristrips (most of the game uses tristrips). Can't load textures currently but loads a decent amount of stage meshes. Beware of submeshes though, they can be funky.
